Z-Axis
===================

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis1.png

|

Step 1: Attach the stepper motor to the Z-axis motor mount
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Attach a motor to the z-axis motor mount using four M3 x 12mm screws.

- The motor and encoder connectors should be facing the back flange of the mount.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis2.png

|

Step 2: Attach the motor mount to the Z-axis extrusion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Attach the z-axis motor mount to the z-axis extrusion using a 60mm nut bar and M5 x 10mm screws.

- The top face of the motor mount should be 80mm from the end of the extrusion.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis3.png

|

Step 3: Attach the shaft coupling
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Slide the shaft coupler onto the motor shaft and tighten the top screw with the 2.5mm hex key.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis4.png

|

Step 4: Attach three cable carrier supports
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Attach three vertical cable carrier supports to the z-axis extrusion using 40mm nut bars and M5 x 10mm screws.

- Space the supports along the extrusion as shown.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis5.png

|

Step 5: Attach the vacuum pump cover
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Attach the vacuum pump cover to the z-axis extrusion using two tee nuts and M5 x 10mm screws.

- The cover should be butted up against the lowest cable carrier support.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis6.png

|

Step 6: Attach the vacuum pump
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Fasten the vacuum pump to the vacuum pump mount using two 200mm zip ties.

- Then attach the vacuum pump mount to the z-axis extrusion using a 60mm nut bar and two M5 x 16mm screws.

- The mount should be butted up against the vacuum pump cover.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis7.png

|

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis8.png

|

Step 7: Attach one more cable carrier support
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Attach one more vertical cable carrier support using a 40mm nut bar and two M5 x 10mm screws.

- The support should be butted up against the vacuum pump mount.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis9.png

|

Step 8: Attach the z-axis to the cross-slide
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Screw the leadscrew halfway into the leadscrew block.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis10.png

|

- Slide the z-axis extrusion through the v-wheels on the cross-slide until the leadscrew inserts into the shaft coupler.

- Then tighten the coupling’s lower screw with the 2.5mm hex key.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis11.png

|

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis12.png

|

Step 9: Install the hardstops
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Attach the z-axis hardstops onto the back side of the z-axis extrusion approximately 200mm from the top of the extrusion and 100mm from the bottom of the extrusion using M5 x 10mm screws and tee nuts.

- Later, you can quickly adjust these to physically prevent FarmBot from moving too low or too high within its working space.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis13.png

|

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis14.png

|

Step 10: Add the vertical motor housing (optional)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- If you plan on stopping assembly after this page, it is recommended to attach the vertical motor housing to the z-axis extrusion using M5 x 10mm screws and tee nuts now.

- This will protect the motor from rain and other hazards until you resume assembly at a later point.

- Once you resume assembly, you will need to remove the housing.

- If you do not plan on stopping the assembly process now, you can skip this step and install the housing after the z motor and encoder cables have been connected in the next step.

.. thumbnail:: /_images/assembly/5.z-axis/z-axis15.png

|

