Z-Axis Movements
===================

- The z-axis frequently stalls when moving upwards. Movements may fail to complete, and in some cases the z-axis may even stall and then begin moving in the opposite direction.

|

1. Adjust the z-axis speed and acceleration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Try lowering the z-axis MAX SPEED and ACCELERATE FOR a longer distance.

- You may try halving the default max speed and doubling the default acceleration distance as a starting point, but because every AgriBot installation is a bit different, you will need to experiment to find the best values for you.

|

2. Check the z-axis eccentric spacers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Check the eccentric spacers on the cross-slide that are used to adjust the V-wheels that support the z-axis extrusion.

- If the eccentric spacers are adjusted too tightly, then they will exert too much force onto the z-axis extrusion which can make it difficult or impossible for the z-axis motor to raise the z-axis.

- With the AgriBot powered off, you should be able to rotate the leadscrew by hand without too much effort.

- If the eccentric spacers are too tight, this will be very difficult to do.

|

3. Lubricate the leadscrew
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- It is possible that dust and debris can build up on the leadscrew causing additional friction between the leadscrew and the leadscrew block.

- Clean the leadscrew with a rag and then add some lubricant which can be purchased from a local hardware store.

- We recommend using a dry graphite lubricant spray which will coat the surface with a fast drying coating of graphite to create a slippery surface that reduces the resistance of movement through the leadscrew block and also may decrease any noise from the leadscrew.

- We have found a product called Jig-a-Loo Graphite Lubricant that can help reduce friction on the AgriBot Z-axis leadscrew.

- Here is a YouTube video that shows how the product is used and the typical applications.

- Apply enough graphite lubricant so that the hue of the screw looks significantly darker than the original silver metallic color.

- You should use enough graphite lubricant so that the screw should appear black or dark grey.

- This will allow the screw to operate without friction and vibrations.

- Please apply the graphite lubricant to the bottom 90% of the lead screw leaving the very top 10% unlubricated so that a sturdy grip can be applied to leadscrew by the coupler.

|

4. Adjust the stepper driver to deliver more power
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- For kits, increase the z-axis MOTOR CURRENT by 100 or 200 milliamps.

|